# GardenPlanner
Capstone Project for SDEV435-81

Every late Winter and early Spring Gardeners eagerly begin the process of planning for the upcoming gardening season.  Each gardener only has a certain amount of space to work with, so they need to carefully select what they want to plant and how to plant everything in the space that’s available to them.  In the past this required the use of graph paper, rulers, colored markers, and careful thought.  If something went wrong, the garden planner would have to grab a new sheet of graph paper and start all over.  This was a very time intensive process.  Living as we do in an age of computing, it makes sense to develop an application that can take some of the guesswork and math out of the process for an efficient plan to be created.  The Garden Space Planner software I intend to build will do exactly this.  
The Garden Space Planner will allow gardeners to input the length and width of their garden to create a representational grid of their space in 6 inch blocks.  Users can select either a portrait or landscape of their view to better conform to how they look at their garden.  They can also save this as a template to use in subsequent years.  With this grid gardeners will be able to drag and drop blocks representing the vegetables or flowers they want to plant on the grid, much in the same way players of SimCity games can drag and drop commercial, residential, industrial, and other properties onto a city grid for city planning.  Progress can be saved at anytime, so if a gardener needs more than one session to make their plan, they can save and come back to it at any point.  More than one garden plan can be saved with this software, so people can keep archives of what their garden looked like each year.
With so many varieties of vegetables and flowers available to gardeners, it is unlikely that this software will include everything people might want in its database.  This is why the software will allow users to add new plants to the database as they see fit.  Each new entry will store important bits of information on that specific plant.  Some data fields will be optional, such as hardiness zone, days to maturity, days to germinate seeds, soil temp for germination, when to start transplants, seed depth for planting, when to start seedlings, and when to transplant outdoors (if not direct seeded).  Data fields that will be required are the common name of the plant (and variety if applicable), spacing between plants in a row, and spacing between rows for the plant.  When the user enters a new plant, they will then be able to select it to drag and drop into their garden grid.

